all right welcome to go anymore browsers
it's 15th of January 2020 I won't say
welcome to 20s cuz I've been told that's
a problematic issue when a decade starts
or ends there people have like arguments
about that on the internet so this week
is bit shorter on the agenda - we got
some topics discussed first one is
sentient short update on end-to-end
tests I think - if you go yesterday on
the jetty of SPR and it seems there are
bugs in the existing CI setup so Hugo is
taking another look I unpack the context
- then can transfer that to him
yesterday so I moved to go ipfs and
actually I got it working today so I did
not even like update this to-do list
before this call and it's still in the
draft but it's actually like maybe I
that's a good thing I was like
commenting without sharing screen so
it's probably ridiculous for people
let's see now
cold cold cold no go back yes
so there's a PR enjoy DF as we power to
to basically add basically run those
existing end-to-end tests we've got in a
keifa's web UI repo again the head of go
ideas so the setup is that we got a
special like docker image with browsers
it's mostly because we ran tests in real
chromium and it requires some additional
libraries and then we got like separate
web UI tasks which runs in parallel with
other interrupt tests so it's not like
locking or adding any time to existing
test shoot and I've made it to basically
do the same thing
enjoy 30 of us so we we run tests
against original ipfs web UI repo just
to see if upstream is green
so if upstream is green I need to I go
to like a fix for this but like in
upstream is green then we continue and
we switch to I go I TFS binary built
from the local repo so that means we
will not break go idea first build if
upstream I DFS web UI is broken for some
reason however if upstream is green and
then if we switch to log to this
developer version of Goa TFS and that
one breaks that means we've got a
regression and that's basically it the
electrical caching solutions provided by
psycho CI so it's pretty fast and
actually I've run it I run here and runs
like under seven minutes or something
and you can see like it runs here
it runs in test it builds web UI and
then run is using the stable production
version which is right now with zero 422
it all green and then we run tested
again but this time we run it against
this specific commit from this specific
branch for which entire tests were
executed the same thing that we will
have for JH HFS and probably it will
land like this week depending on fix is
provided by Hugo for J's because I don't
want to like open too many peers so
probably just merge all the fixes for
both I think that's it for them to
enters the cool thing is that we would
found some bars in existing setup so we
are harden
our CI and I like I like the fact that
Ingo idea files I did some timing and
interrupts tasks take like 15 minutes or
more maybe probably more I think it was
running for 15 minutes at least
so those end-to-end tests don't know
where do I take only I think I believe
six minutes or seven now that we run
them twice so we don't add any
additional time to go a TFS test which
probably means no one will be angry for
us for like adding discs to 2ti setup I
mean I think we'd want to take it anyway
yeah at that time but it makes like it's
so much easier yeah and cool thing is
that we are like forbidding people from
creating when they initialize idea first
we thought that it's impossible to Esha
initialize repo with small key sizes now
so you are not able to like use like 1k
let heard thousand 24 bits you need to
have at least like 2000 bitter keys and
in CI we we use a special variable to
lift that limitation just so the test
runs faster but took some time to figure
out why it does not work probably should
ask someone but well it's more fun if
you figure it out on your own alright I
think Detrick got some yeah
a quick question l kind of what's the
what's the this so that then the go IP
facade you're still waiting it's not
actually landed in peer in CI yet and
you need to be able to get approval from
someone before that lands oh yeah so
like in both Jas and go those PRS are
still in a draft state and I just want
to sleep them both when I merge all the
sup stream because we had like.we fix
some things in the edger at the first
decontrol web UI itself it's like now
like start several random port so you
can run multiple ones on the same
hardware and stuff like that so it's
just a matter of merging upstream stuff
and then slipping those PRS and asking
like Stephen in Goa TFS probably and
Alain all Alex think you go on J side
but yeah it generally works it's just a
matter of like fixing some bugs are in
outside of web UI and outside of actual
code we had it all right yep
the the next next issue that I and we
talked about doing a brave post kind of
like a more technical dive something
sprained specific acknowledges braves
1.0 acknowledged as to what ipfs work
shipped in that release and i think that
that's great if we can get that out
before the end of the month that we also
have a kind of set up before each denver
of a thing to point out and talk about
there so I wonder I was thinking maybe
for this what if we schedule an hour
next week where we could work on it
together we see if which is being in a
zoom room for an hour if see if we can
push out a blog post that way yeah
sounds good we could even I I wonder if
would be useful to sort of like prepare
an outline beforehand so yeah absolutely
yeah in telling the details yeah
pick any time that works for you and
I'll try to end like maybe create
hackpad beforehand and I'll do my best
to like do outline before so we have
some like starting points without
tearing on the blank screen okay yeah I
had some like notes around for this but
it's like yeah and I'm an interaction
machine
[Music]
next item is also me and this is just
more like keeping people apprised of you
know ideas that we had and the Galea so
this is like Galia does a work for a
long time doing native implementations
of technologies for web browsers if
limiting web standards and we approached
them in December around just have a
early conversation with what native
implementation in chromium would look
like they're super experienced long and
long involved in standardization and had
landed major major things like CSS grid
they're really committed to open source
the open web is a platform and very
experienced in landing code in browser
vendor repositories so they're part of
browser vendor teams they've committed
access to the depositories so when we
met in summer I basically give them kind
of like a intro into just 30 doing at
the background of PL where we're coming
from in terms of in source by default
and the values of the organization and a
quick you know look at my professors and
technologies and record a review of the
work that we've done so far I'm working
with browser vendors and I think we're
gonna meet again and kind of intro into
kind of how a Galia works and what their
approaches are how to evaluate projects
to take on but it was pretty exciting
opportunity and really just one of those
things that probably ready no work early
early days but just having conversations
and seeing those possible in terms of
the browser integration in the long term
native chromium integration gives us a
lot of abilities to be able to speak to
people shipping chromium based browsers
and make that choice for them easier
have for them to be able to share the
resources and that we've put into a
shared implementation for chromium and
the conversation and implementation are
really different for say WebKit or gecko
so the idea of chromium first supports
the two partners that we've already been
working really closely with brave and
opera in in a positive way it also makes
that a possible choice if if Microsoft
as they're now I think they're about to
launch the edge
chromium as their default browser is
pretty soon so it makes the conversation
for them if they enter crypto space and
more and more strongly or want to build
ads these types of features to their
browser to support kind of the identity
work I know they're like their ion
project uses IP FS by default so this
this might be something that would be in
their interest as well so there's really
a lot of a lot of birds with one stone
if we take that approach first and then
you know conversations with other
browser vendors s as as usual still
ongoing but interesting opportunity with
worth highlighting there and then just
also a quick update on the on the
browser design guidelines
I think slide all for doing a massive
pass on it Jim's gonna integrate your
comments I haven't looked at all of them
in detail but I think that the goal is
to have this pretty much close that by
next next week that I get a present I
profess weekly I'm like where's that the
24th or something like that so I will do
all the final polish we've already
started talking about a second
follow-along project which is IP fest
mobile design guidelines this would not
be limited to browsers specifically but
would include browsers and web flows
especially as like let's say if you're
on a if you're on a mobile device that
has an IP FS protocol handler or share
handler of some kind or so do registers
to be able to be a handler for those
types of URLs what those flows would
look like patterns for spinning up and
down transient demons on device what the
you know UX and interaction patterns for
when you're and I propose client only
say only using HP API or not actually
running a full node daemon but even
reading a you know lighter later I
profess light as we've seen both in the
Burney work a textile work and in three
blocks all looking at like various
various levels of what a node looks like
in a mobile app both in and out of
rouser context for those native apps do
they do should they register as an api
profess protocol handler on the OS like
there's all these questions that need to
be figured out and mobile
that of which like mobile browser is a
subset an important subset but but part
of so there's some and probably follow
along work that's going to happen after
after this completes might wanted to
give an update there and I think those
were the only things that I had on the
agenda
you're meted I can't let now like I need
to like fake the same reaction honest
candid reaction no I was like saying
that I'm really stoked about having like
those browser designs especially like I
really like how scoped those are and
it's probably a good approach to like
better produce multiple but like very
specific scoped documents and design
guidelines then like one huge butter
fork yeah we want to make it as easy as
possible for per browser vendors for
design teams and security teams and
people doing evaluation of security UI
in browsers to be able to understand
what the how much of the browser service
area that it affects how much of user
actions will be impacted and where that
matters and ultimately for the way that
desktop browser designed today that
really is as nearly scenario as possibly
as closely down to what a user can
actually do and that's really the URL
bar today yep
I have something that's not on an agenda
but I thought it's a fun topic too and
and that review process on Chrome Web
Store turns out we got updated to 2.10
in December and I was like tracking how
long it takes for so there's a like an
issue about why we are in permanent
in-depth review on Chrome Web Store so
every time we publish we the pub new
version is not immediately available to
our users instead it takes time for it
to be reviewed and that's basically
because we asked for some like in like
broad permissions but those permissions
are critical for IT first companion
doing what it does so basically
identifying caiaphas resources on the
web and giving you user context actions
but and also
giving a possibility of redirecting that
to local running nodes so historically
we always took multiple days but for
some time
it looked so it was suspicious it always
took seven days and it was the same I
believe in the last case so I start to
suspect this simply like a manual delay
hard-coded somewhere because every time
it takes seven days before a new version
is published and it's both for our
stable channel this one is the stable
Channel we also have a better channel
and it's the same there which is kind of
a bummer because it makes it impossible
for people to try like quick we cannot
like quickly iterate and publishing
versions we cannot even like overwrite
already published version with the new
one so if we found our find a bug and we
want to publish a fixed version that's
not possible
until the old version is reviewed so
that's the update but we are published
like the lighted version published which
is called it's the version when we moved
file import to NFS so you can see your
files in web UI files and that's it I
believe we are at the end of their
agenda so I mean there is something so
bright there in that there is a new
version of IP first billion available
yeah like chromium user it's time to
update or maybe you've updated already
and should not even know but your
updates will be fewer and further
between and that is not not due to us
yep I believe it won't improve unless we
create a dedicated person for for
chromium for Google Chrome basically
that is using manifest to be free but
let's that's like a separate topic and
it's not even available in a stable
channel there's like a early preview
canary but not all 80 ice out there and
it's hard to tell how the final version
will look like so time will tell
all right I believe that's it for this
week and the last words
Deitrick know good stuff Happy's anyway
stay warm yep
alright see you next week